All right, there's the saying
is the hardest things in computer science
is naming things in cache invalidation.
And we're gonna be going up against the second thing
which is cache invalidation.
What happens when you delete an item
when you have pagination?
So let me show you right away
how Apollo is currently handling the cache.
If we go over to Apollo DevTools here,
we go to our cache,
you'll see that when we query some products,
previously they're all just put under all products.
Now, when we query some products
it uses the actual query itself
as a key to store the products.
And if I go onto the next page here,
of course the DevTools aren't working,
I got to close it, open it up again,
go back to my cache, there we go.
You see that now the third and fourth products
are under their own key.
And this can be a bit of an issue for a number of reasons.
First of all this product, this one right here
that's the suitcase right here.
And if we want it to query this suitcase again
somewhere else, like if we wanted to put it in that order
or we wanted to put it in a pop-up
or put it in a footer or anywhere else
we needed this piece of data,
our query is gonna be like product
with an ID of 5fc95 et cetera, et cetera.
And that's not the same query as this.
So it's actually not going to
know that it has that item in the cache.
It's gonna go to the network and grab it again.
So what we could do is we can say, all right,
we actually don't want to use these first and skip values
as part of the key when storing it in our Apollo cache.
We wanna stick them all in one big list of products.
And then we want to control ourselves
how these products are both fetched from the network
as well as return from the cache
so we can display them on the page.
So I'm gonna say right up front
this is gonna be a hard video.
This is the hard part for me.
There's still some weird oddities in it
that I couldn't fix myself.
I had probably six or seven calls
with various people on the Apollo Dev team
and they can't figure it out either.
So I'm just gonna put it out there this this sucks to me.
But this is how it works
and this is what we gotta do
to make it work in the pagination.
Just know that this is not my half-assed approach at it.
This is just how the library works.
So the idea here is that when we delete an item, delete
what needs to happen is that
that item needs to be deleted from the cache.
And when that happens
all the other items need to come sliding forward, right?
Like if we've got item one, two, three, four, five, six
and we delete item four.
What needs to happen as you delete it?
Now we have an empty spot
so then it needs to be brought back up.
Now, if we do that with pages like these
let's say these dashes are pages here.
What happens is if you delete item four
now five needs to go on that page
and six needs to be on this page by itself.
So the question is like, okay,
like what do you do to actually handle that?
There's like one option is you could refresh the queries
but there's a problem with that
because we don't know what all the queries are.
The second option is put all the products in one big list.
And then by doing that,
we ends up we just delete one item from that product list
and everything will bump itself up.
So there still is a couple of little edge cases around it.
There also is, one more option is when you delete an item
another option is just go nuclear and delete everything
meaning that, okay, the items or the products
on the page have changed,
just scrub them all from cache
and then as the person pages through,
then we can just fetch them again.
And that's actually quite a good option
meaning like let's just delete all the products
and then get them back from the network.
The only issue with that is that Apollo doesn't have,
they haven't a way to delete one item, which is evict.
We just use that.
And then they have a way to delete the entire cache
which is this entire thing
but they don't have a way currently
to delete all items in the cache of a certain type
meaning that like you can't just delete all the products.
You have to delete the metadata here,
you have to delete who's currently logged in.
You have to delete any other piece of data
in your application.
And that is a bit nuclear to me
because you don't necessarily wanna do that, right?
And then you have to have a huge
you're basically resetting the entire application.
So with that said, buckle up
and we're gonna start writing it ourselves.
So the way that you do that
is with this thing called type policies in Apollo.
Now, Apollo here we have this in-memory cache,
go to your widthdata.js
and we have these different fields.
These are fields in here.
And basically we say when a field comes in
which in our case is gonna be all products
let me manage it myself.
Instead of you doing the default
which is taking all of the variables
that are passed to that query
and using that to sort of split them up,
let me handle it myself.
So what we're gonna do here is let's uncomment that
so all products is going to be handled
by a pagination field.
Then we're gonna go ahead and write that thing ourselves.
So let's go into our lib folder.
Make a new file and call it paginationField.js
and export default paginationField.
Now, from that we're gonna return an object
that has a read function and a merge function.
Give that a save.
I'll go back into our data and import this pagination field.
Boom, okay.
And I think now if we,
Oh, did I forget the word function?
I always forget the word function.
There's a lot of things to pop in here.
There we go.
I think now if we refresh our app, we get nothing, right?
Because we are not returning or merging any products.
So the way that this read and merge works
is that when Apollo tries to query for all products
it is first going to first thing it does
is asks the read function for those items.
Here, we can either do one of two things.
First thing we can do is return the items
because they are already in the cache, okay?
The other thing we can do,
the other thing we can do is to return a false from here.
And what that will do is that will make a network request
meaning that if we run this field here
and Apollo says, "Please may I have the products?"
It will first run a read function.
And then if we figure out by looking at the cache
saying that there are no items in the cache,
then what we're gonna do here is we return false
and what Apollo will do, it says, okay, well
they didn't give me anything.
So I'm gonna go to the network
meaning that I'm gonna go to our Keystone database
and try to fetch the items.
Then when it comes back from the database with the items,
it says, "Hey,I know you told me we didn't have
any of the items.
So I went to the network and got some myself,
here they are."
And you're gonna run a merge function.
It says, this runs when the Apollo client comes back
from the network with our products.
And then basically we're saying
what the merge function is
like how do you wanna put them into the cache?
Like where do you wanna put them?
In what order do you wanna put them?
All the things like that.
Okay, so let's go into here.
Above this read function, we need to say keyArgs is false.
And what this will do is it tells Apollo,
we will take care of everything.
Then inside the read function here
it gives us a couple arguments.
It gives us the existing items
and we'll set that to be just a default of an array.
So any items that are already in the cache
it gives us the existing items here.
And then the second argument, it gives us is an object.
So we wanna actually destructure that object.
So curly brackets, and we wanna grab the args
and the cache itself.
and the args and the cache are gonna be,
the args is gonna be the first in the skip values
that we were asking for in our products
and the cache is gonna be the Apollo cache that we have.
So right here, if we log out existing args and cache,
we could probably see what we get here.
Go to our console, give it a refresh.
There we go.
So existing is an empty array.
The arguments is, give me the first two and skip two
that's because we're on page two.
And then the cache is just a reference to the Apollo cache
which we can use to query all of our items.
So let's go on the first line here
and just say, const skip.
And first is equal to args
and that just restructures the skipping first properties
into their own values so that we can have them in here.
And then what we need to do is read the number of items
on the page from the cache const data.
And if you wanna pull data out of your cache,
it looks like this cache.readQuery.
And you actually have to pass a graph QL query.
So what we'll do here is we'll say query
and just a GQL, you could also import this
directly from our pagination field.
Let's take a look here.
This is actually the query that we want.
So what we could do is we pop an export in front of that.
And let's just import that pagination query here
so we actually don't need to do that.
Now we need to import that into this file.
My auto import is not working
so we'll go ahead and import it ourselves.
So import pagination query from up
into components to pagination.
And we can just console.log the data
that comes back from that.
And here we go, object all products meta
and it gives us the count
of the number of items that we have.
So let's say const count
is equal to data dot underscore all products meta.count.
And there's a possibility that
these will not exist just yet.
So by putting question marks on there
what we're doing is we're making sure it doesn't break
by having data as undefined.
That question mark is a new thing in JavaScript.
And what it does it first checks if that value is there
and then it checks if that value is there
and then finally it grabs the count value off of that.
Next we need to calculate what page we are currently on.
So say const page is equal to
skip divided by first plus one.
And how many pages in total is equal to math.ceil.
We already did this once before, say count divided by first
and that will give us how many pages we are on.
Now, we say check if we have existing items,
that's what is next.
So const items is equal to existing.slice.
We'll start at the skip value.
Start at two and then how many do we wanna go for
when we take our skip value and plus the first.
And what that will do is it says
give me start at two and go until you hit four.
And that will give us the two items in our case
because we're doing two per page.
Then we wanna do a quick little filter on them
and that is because it's possible
that these items are going to be undefined.
We'll hit that in just a second
and we'll just return the item.
And if that is undefined it will filter it out
from the list of items that we have there.
Next we wanna check if there are existing items,
oh sorry, if there are not existing items
and we'll send them to the network.
So we'll say if the items.length.
So if the items that we pulled from the existing cache
does not equal the first variable that we have,
that means we don't have any items,
we must go to the network to fetch them.
So here we'll say return false, right?
What that will do is it will say, "Hey"
which we looked, we looked in the cache, there are no items.
Go to the network, go get 'em yourself
'cause I certainly don't have them.
Then here we'll say is, if there are items
just return them from the cache
and we don't need to go to the network.
Say if the items.length,
simply just console log.
There are, and we'll log it out items.length
items in the cache, gonna send them to Apollo.
And then we return items.
Finally, if either of those if statements don't work
we just return false.
And that will just fall back to network
just in case either of those if statements don't work out.
All right, so now if you refresh, the whole thing is broken.
It still doesn't work.
And that's because we're in this state right now.
When you come from a hard refresh,
we're in this state right here where we don't have any items
or we don't have enough items
and what that does is it will send us back to the network.
So what that will do is it'll fetch the network
and then we go to the merge request.
And the merge request is what runs
when we come back from the network with our items.
So what we do here is you get the existing cache
and we get the incoming new items.
And then we get the args of the query
as well in the third one,
that's part of a property on an object that comes in
so we destructure that here.
So we'll do right here.
Once I console.log,
merging items from the network.
And we could even say incoming.length.
And here we go, look at this merging items from the network.
Why is that happening?
Well, because the read returns false right here.
So it says, all right, go to the network.
And then the network comes back and says,
"All right, I went to the network and I got them.
Here they are, they are incoming." Right?
And if we were to log out the incoming items ourselves,
we should see them somewhere in here.
Here we go. There's the two items.
And they are just refs to the actual products themselves
and the value should be in our Apollo cache.
So what we can do here
is save, const merged is equal to,
if there are existing items in the cache already,
then we will take a copy of the existing.slice
And we grab 'em all.
Otherwise we just want empty array.
Then this is gonna be a little bit weird.
You think you might just be like rest,
just push those new items into the array and call it a day.
But the reason why this doesn't work
is because if somebody, let's go to this blank page again.
Imagine we have one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven eight, nine, 10.
So if somebody starts on page one
and you're gonna fetch items one and two.
And then they go to page two and they get three and four
and then go five and six and seven and eight.
But what happens
if somebody goes to the fourth page directly?
Like someone says, "Hey, check this out,"
and they link them to the fourth page?
Okay, that's a bit of a problem
because we still need these items to exist in these slots.
But since they're coming directly to that page
these items have never been fetched before.
So what we essentially need to do
is put blank spots wherever those items are going to be
like that and then slot in the two merged items
that we have.
And then the forward ones don't really matter
because we're not going forward.
We just need to know about the previous ones.
So the way that we do that is with a four loop.
This is a little bit funky as well.
This is why I'm like I'm sorry
for this part of the tutorial that it's like this
but again, this is how it's done.
We'd say, let i is equal to the skip value that comes in.
Oh, we need to grab our skip and first value.
So const skip and first is equal to args.
We destructure that from our arguments.
So let i is equal to skip.
I, well i is less than skip
plus the incoming.length and then plus, plus i.
Then we say the merged i is equal to incoming
i minus skip.
And I'll show you visually what this is doing
in just a second.
So what we do here is if we were don't,
oh we got to take this push out.
We don't actually need that.
And if we were to console.log are merged now
and then finally underneath that return merged.
And what this will do is
finally we return the merged items from the cache.
And what Apollo will do is when you return from emerge
it will back to the read function and try it again.
So it does a read function.
If it has nothing, it returns false,
then it goes down to the merge.
And then when the merge returns items
the read function runs again and says,
"Hi, I went to the network, let's try this again."
And if you return false from this
then you just have an infinite loop of network request.
But ideally what will happen is you have
you do have items now
and then you can return them from here.
So it goes, read, merge, read.
If there are items in the cache, it's just read.
Otherwise, if it goes to network, it's read, merge, read.
So I'll give that a save us a lotta code we wrote.
Let's see here what we got, give it a refresh.
Got an issue here.
Invalid left-hand side in prefix operation.
What did we do here?
Oh, that should not be one, that's i.
(laughing) Okay, it worked.
Now, what's important about that now
is if we go to our Apollo cache here, go to our cache.
You'll see that the all products is the first two are null
and then the second two are the actual products
that came in and that's because I went to page two directly.
If I go now go to page three,
those items should be in the cache
if the Apollo Dev tools worked.
Open it up again.
Here we go you see those items are in there.
Let me go to the very last page here.
And, the last page has issue.
Let's go to page six.
And then if we go to the Apollo Dev tools and cache
we should see a whole bunch of empty spots
that then will be filled in
when you go to previous page previous
and they will be updating.
It's just that the Dev tools are again, not very good.
And you have to reopen it to get a
fixed version of it.
Come on, Apollo.
There we go.
You see that it's possible that you get into this issue.
Okay, cool, so the very last thing is
there is one more issue.
And when you go to the last page
and it says cannot access property of all products
data is undefined.
And the reason we're getting that
is because if we take a look at our pagination field,
here we go
we are only ever returning the items when there are four.
And in this case, when you're on the last page
there are not there's not four
because there might only be one item on the last page.
So what we need to do
is before we do this one right here,
we need to say if the items.length and
so if there are items,
but the items.length does not equal the first value.
So how many we requested.
And the page that we're on is equal to the number of pages.
So let's write a comment.
If there are items and
there aren't enough items
to satisfy how many were requested.
So in our case two.
And we are on the last page,
then just send it.
So that covers the thing is you want two per page
but we only have one.
And if that's the case, we're just gonna send it
because we are on the last page.
And there's a possibility that we don't have enough items
to fill the last page entirely.
So if then we simply just return items.
There we go and that's one item.
So that's a very up to
if statement, I probably spent an entire day writing
(laughing) to get one item showing up on the last page.
So that works.
So now the question is
is what happens when we delete an item?
So let's go to,
let's go here, so we got belt, jacket, shoes.
So what happens when I delete this item now?
So delete, go ahead and, okay.
Boom, so what happened there is that
you see how it automatically went
and fetched the next item for the next page.
That's because in our Apollo cache,
all of our items are now under one key which is all products
and they're not under multiple keys
which is page one, page two, page three, page four.
So that's the thing we get into.
There is a couple of little Ed's Casey issues
that I hope will be solved.
And if so, I'll update this video.
But for now, that actually helps out
in almost all of our cases.
So you can see the number of items even has updated itself.
So I know that wasn't very much fun.
That probably took me very many days,
very many phone calls and I apologize for it.
But that is the official word from the Devs at Apollo
as to how you should actually approach something like this.
Let's get into something a little bit more fun
and I'll catch you in that one.